Post/ergonomic apis (#3)
zheylmun/site: content/posts/designing_ergonomic_apis.md

date = "2025-01-11"
draft = true

[taxonomies]
tags=["Rust", "API Design", "Engineering"]
+++
# Designing Ergonomic APIs in Rust

[Rust](https://rustlang.org) is a [great programming language](https://survey.stackoverflow.co/2024/technology#admired-and-desired).
It has a strong type system, memory safety, concurrency as a first class feature, a powerful macro system,
and a focus on developer productivity, in addition to being one of the fastest languages out there.
All of those attributes have been covered by too many blogs, articles, and talks to count.
The ecosystem of crates is growing rapidly,
but many of the foundational crates are of a quality that is hard to find in other languages.
Crates like [Chrono](https://github.com/chronotope/chrono), [Tokio](https://tokio.rs), and [Hyper](https://hyper.rs) are well-designed,
well-documented, and well-maintained.
This isn't to suggest that other languages don't have great ecosystems,
but the quality of core crates in the Rust ecosystem is just on another level.
They're not just good, they're great.
They have a level of correctness, robustness, and attention to detail that is hard to find in any other language.

> What's more, there are a *Lot* of examples of really incredible open source projects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Moreover, there are a *lot* of examples of really incredible open source projects written in Rust.
```

I've been blown away by the quality of the crates I've used in Rust since I started working in the language.
The code is so good in fact, that it's honestly pretty intimidating.

> I've spent the last several months building a bunch of foundational (for other work) libraries in Rust,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I've spent the last several months building libraries in Rust,
```

> and I've come to appreciate the sum of the language's strengths for a reason I haven't seen discussed as much:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and I've come to appreciate the sum of the language's strengths for a reason I haven't seen discussed much:
```

obvious correctness drives ergonomics.
Because the language is so strict, it's easy to identify where you've taken shortcuts to get things working.

> Like everyone else, I've had deadlines and deliveries to make, and I've taken shortcuts that I've regretted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Like probably everyone who's ever written code, I have taken shortcuts I regretted to make deliveries on time.
```

> I've also been fortunate enough to have the opportunity to go back and fix that technical debt.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I've also been fortunate enough to have the opportunity to go back and fix much of that technical debt.
```

> The results to have been rather remarkable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
, and the results have been rather remarkable.
```

> By simply fixing the things that were obviously wrong, I've been able to make my code more correct, robust, and simple.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Simply fixing things that were obviously lacking has made my code more correct, robust, and simple.
```

I've arrived at a place where I have some pretty great ergonomics in some of the APIs I've built
just by fixing the things that were obviously wrong or more onerous than they needed to be.

## What are Ergonomics?

The ergonomics of a programming language are the features that make it easy to write code.

> Languages like Go, Python, and Ruby are known for their ergonomics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Go, Python, and Ruby are known for their ergonomics.
```

They have a simple syntax, powerful standard libraries, and a focus on developer productivity.

> Unfortunately their ergonomics come at the cost of making it easy to introduce runtime errors

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unfortunately, their ergonomics come at the cost of making it easy to introduce runtime errors
```

and structural issues that can be difficult to debug.

> It's easy to quickly develop functionality in those languages,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's easy to develop functionality quickly in those languages,
```

but there tends to be a long tail of bugs and performance issues.
It's easy to get things *mostly right*,
but it's near impossible to get things *exactly right*.

> Rust, on the other hand, has a reputation for being difficult to learn and use,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the other hand, Rust has a reputation for being difficult to learn and use,
```

> seemingly at odds with the admiration and praise heaped on the language.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
seemingly at odds with its popularity and veneration.
```

It has a steep learning curve, a complex type system,
and a focus on memory safety and performance that forces developers to worry about things they might not even consider in other languages.

> Frustratingly, you have to do all of those things before your code even compiles.

Reviewer: What things do you have to do?

Author: Updated wording

I wrote some functions that were awkward to use and traits that resulted in a lot of boilerplate.
I've also been fortunate enough to have the opportunity to go back and address much of that technical debt.
The results have been rather remarkable.

By simply fixing the things that were obviously less than ideal, I've been able to make my code more correct, robust, and simple.
I've arrived at a place where I have some pretty great ergonomics in some of the APIs I've built
just by addressing issues that were obvious shortcuts, as well as areas that caused me to take shortcuts downstream.

## What are Ergonomics?

The ergonomics of a programming language are the features that make it easy to write code.
Languages like Go, Python, and Ruby are known for their ergonomics.
They have a simple syntax, powerful standard libraries, and a focus on developer productivity.
Unfortunately their ergonomics come at the cost of making it easy to introduce runtime errors
and structural issues that can be difficult to debug.
It's easy to quickly develop functionality in those languages,
but there tends to be a long tail of bugs and performance issues.
It's easy to get things *mostly right*,

> but it's near impossible to get things *exactly right*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
but it's much harder to get things *exactly right*.
```

Rust, on the other hand, has a reputation for being difficult to learn and use,
seemingly at odds with the admiration and praise heaped on the language.
It has a steep learning curve, a complex type system,
and a focus on memory safety and performance that forces developers to worry about things they might not even consider in other languages.
Frustratingly, you have to do all of those things before your code even compiles.

> The ergonomics of libraries are a little different.

Reviewer: I think you're repeating yourself a bit in this paragraph.

Author: Better?

An ergonomic library is one that is easy to use, easy to understand, and hard to misuse.
It's easy to get started with, and it's pleasant to use as intended.
It should be hard to use wrong, handle errors gracefully, and provide helpful feedback when things go awry.

## Ergonomics in Rust

> Using the really great crates in the Rust ecosystem is like a masterclass in API design.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using crates in the Rust ecosystem is like a masterclass in API design.
```

Need to serialize a complex data structure?

[Serde](https://serde.rs) makes it easy.
```rust
#[derive(Serialize)]
Struct MyComplexType{...
```

**Boom**, done.

Need to make a complicated  SQL query?
[Diesel](https://diesel.rs") has you covered.
```rust
let results =
      orders::table
      .inner_join(users::table.on(orders::user_id.eq(users::id)))
      .inner_join(order_items::table.on(order_items::order_id.eq(orders::id)))
      .filter(order_items::product_id.eq(product_id))
      .select((users::username,
          diesel::sql_function::sum(order_items::price).as(total_spent)))
      .group_by(users::username)
      .order_by(diesel::sql_function::sum(order_items::price).desc())
      .limit(10)
      .load::<(String, i32)>(conn)?;
```
**Whoa**, that's a big, complex expression that just does exactly what I want.

There are so many incredible examples of great API design in the Rust ecosystem.
Rust's standard library is the only standard library that I've ever used that I would describe as both
"great" and easily readable.

> The Rustacean's that really drive the ecosystem write an unbelievable ammount of code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Rustaceans that really drive the ecosystem write an unbelievable ammount of code.
```

> Not only do they write a lot of code, but they write a lot of really good code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
, and the quality is unbelievably high.
```

I've never understood quite how they do it.
Having the opportunity to spend the time to really polish code myself has given me some insight though.
The key is to just keep fixing the things that are obviously wanting.

## What's Wrong?

The Rust language is very specific.
Very little is implicit.
If you want to copy something, you have to call `.clone()`.
If you get an error, you have to explicitly handle it (or call `.unwrap()` 🤮).
If you've coded yourself into a corner with the borrow checker,
you have to refactor your code to fix your access patterns.

Fortunately, it's pretty easy to make sweeping changes in Rust for the same reasons that writing it in the first place is difficult.

> The compiler catches cases where you've made a mistake, or missed something that needs to be updated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The compiler catches cases where you've made a mistake or missed something that needs to be updated.
```

> The result is that once a major refactor compiles again, the code probably still works as expected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The result is that once a major refactor compiles again, the code probably works as intended.
```

> The compiler very particular, but it has your back, and it's a great feeling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The compiler is very particular, but it has your back, and it's a great feeling.
```

tags=["Rust", "API Design", "Engineering"]
+++
# Designing Ergonomic APIs in Rust

[Rust](https://rustlang.org) is a [great programming language](https://survey.stackoverflow.co/2024/technology#admired-and-desired).
It has a strong type system, memory safety, concurrency as a first class feature, a powerful macro system,
and a focus on developer productivity, in addition to being one of the fastest languages out there.
All of those attributes have been covered by too many blogs, articles, and talks to count.
The ecosystem of crates is growing rapidly,
but many of the foundational crates are of a quality that is hard to find in other languages.
Crates like [Chrono](https://github.com/chronotope/chrono), [Tokio](https://tokio.rs), and [Hyper](https://hyper.rs) are well-designed,
well-documented, and well-maintained.
This isn't to suggest that other languages don't have great ecosystems,
but the quality of core crates in the Rust ecosystem is just on another level.
They have a level of correctness, robustness, and attention to detail that is hard to find in any other language.
Moreover, there are a *lot* of examples of really incredible open source projects written in Rust.

> I've been blown away by the quality of the crates I've used in Rust since I started working in the language.

Author: ```suggestion
```

The code is so good in fact, that it's honestly pretty intimidating.

I've spent the last several months building libraries in Rust,

> and I've come to appreciate the sum of the language's strengths for a reason I haven't seen discussed much:

Author: ```suggestion
and I've come to appreciate the sum of the language's features for a reason I haven't seen discussed much:
```

+++
title = "Designing Ergonomic APIs in Rust"
date = "2025-01-11"

[taxonomies]
tags=["Rust", "API Design", "Engineering"]
+++
# Designing Ergonomic APIs in Rust

> [Rust](https://rustlang.org) is a [great programming language](https://survey.stackoverflow.co/2024/technology#admired-and-desired).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [Rust](https://rustlang.org) programming language is [broadly and deeply venerated](https://survey.stackoverflow.co/2024/technology#admired-and-desired) for an impressive variety of reasons.
```

It has a strong type system, memory safety, concurrency as a first class feature, a powerful macro system,
and a focus on developer productivity, in addition to being one of the fastest languages out there.

> All of those attributes have been covered by too many blogs, articles, and talks to count.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All of those virtues have been covered by too many blogs, articles, and talks to count.
```

The ecosystem of crates is growing rapidly,
but many of the foundational crates are of a quality that is hard to find in other languages.
Crates like [Chrono](https://github.com/chronotope/chrono), [Tokio](https://tokio.rs), and [Hyper](https://hyper.rs) are well-designed,
well-documented, and well-maintained.
This isn't to suggest that other languages don't have great ecosystems,
but the quality of core crates in the Rust ecosystem is just on another level.

> They're not just good, they're great.

Reviewer: I think this sentence is extraneous

> They're not just good, they're great.

Author: ```suggestion
```

They have a level of correctness, robustness, and attention to detail that is hard to find in any other language.
Moreover, there are a *lot* of examples of really incredible open source projects written in Rust.

> I've been blown away by the quality of the crates I've used in Rust since I started working in the language.

Reviewer: I think this is implicit in the overall paragraph. You're repeating the thesis of line 19, so maybe combining the two sentences would be more impactful.

The code is so good in fact, that it's honestly pretty intimidating.

I've spent the last several months building libraries in Rust,

> and I've come to appreciate the sum of the language's strengths for a reason I haven't seen discussed much:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and I've come to appreciate the aggregate of the language's features for a reason I haven't seen discussed much:
```

obvious correctness drives ergonomics.
Because the language is so strict, it's easy to identify where you've cut corners to get things working.
Like just about everyone who's ever written code, I have taken shortcuts I regretted to make deliveries on time.
I didn't always consider carefully whether functions should take references or values.
I didn't always encode the invariants of my data structures in the type system.
I wrote some functions that were awkward to use and traits that resulted in a lot of boilerplate.
I've also been fortunate enough to have the opportunity to go back and address much of that technical debt.
The results have been rather remarkable.

> Simply fixing the things that were obviously lacking, I've been able to make my code more correct, robust, and simple.
> I've arrived at a place where I have some pretty great ergonomics in some of the APIs I've built
> just by addressing issues that were obvious shortcuts, as well as areas that caused me to take shortcuts downstream.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By revising code that was obviously lacking, I have been able to make my code more simple, correct, and robust.
The ergonomics of the APIs I've built have become far better than I envisioned when I began writing them because Rust made it easy to find and fix the hacks.
```

> ## What are Ergonomics?

Reviewer: You may want to move the paragraphs that use the word "ergonomics" after this section...

The ergonomics of a programming language are the features that make it easy to write code.
Go, Python, and Ruby are known for their ergonomics.
They have a simple syntax, powerful standard libraries, and a focus on developer productivity.
Unfortunately, their ergonomics come at the cost of making it easy to introduce runtime errors
and structural issues that can be difficult to debug.
It's easy to develop functionality quickly in those languages,
but there tends to be a long tail of bugs and performance issues.
It's easy to get things *mostly right*,
but it's much harder to get things *exactly right*.

On the other hand, Rust has a reputation for being difficult to learn and use,
seemingly at odds with its popularity and veneration.
It has a steep learning curve, a complex type system,
and a focus on memory safety and performance that forces developers to worry about things they might not even consider in other languages.
Frustratingly, you have to consider and address all of those issues before your code will even compile.

The ergonomics of libraries are a little different.
An ergonomic library is one that is easy to use, easy to understand, and hard to misuse.

> It's easy to get started with, and it's pleasant to use as intended.

Reviewer: I think this line might be extraneous now.

Well designed libraries encode their invariants in the types and functions they expose,
making it difficult to misuse them.
Thoughtful traits and macros can give users lots of power with minimal boilerplate.

## Ergonomics in Rust

> The best crates in the Rust ecosystem are like a masterclass in API design.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Many of the top crates in the Rust ecosystem are like a masterclass in API design.
```

Need to serialize a complex data structure?

[Serde](https://serde.rs) makes it easy.
```rust
#[derive(Serialize)]
Struct MyComplexType{...
```

**Boom**, done.

Need to make a complicated  SQL query?
[Diesel](https://diesel.rs") has you covered.

```rust
let results =
      orders::table
      .inner_join(users::table.on(orders::user_id.eq(users::id)))
      .inner_join(order_items::table.on(order_items::order_id.eq(orders::id)))
      .filter(order_items::product_id.eq(product_id))
      .select((users::username,
          diesel::sql_function::sum(order_items::price).as(total_spent)))
      .group_by(users::username)
      .order_by(diesel::sql_function::sum(order_items::price).desc())
      .limit(10)
      .load::<(String, i32)>(conn)?;
```
**Whoa**, that's a big, complex expression that says and does exactly what I want.

> There are so many incredible examples of great API design in the Rust ecosystem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are far too many examples of incredible API design in the Rust ecosystem to include here. I highly recommend checking out the growing list of community recommended crates at [Awesome Rust](https://github.com/rust-unofficial/awesome-rust) and [blessed.rs](https://blessed.rs/crates).
```

Rust's standard library is the only standard library that I've ever used that I would describe as both
extremely clever and easily readable.
Clever code tends to be dense and opaque,
but Rust's standard library is ingenious because its abstractions are so simple and powerful.

> The Rustaceans that really drive the ecosystem write an unbelievable ammount of code of incredibly high quality code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Rustaceans who drive the ecosystem write an unbelievable amount of incredibly high-quality code.
```

> I've never understood quite how they do it.
> Having the opportunity to spend the time to really polish Rust code myself has given me some insight though.
> The key is to just keep fixing the things that are obviously wanting,
> and the language itself helps guide you to something exceptional.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I never understood quite how they did it until I spent some time refactoring my own Rust APIs.
What stands out to me is the convenience and pedagogy inherent to the language itself. The key is to just keep fixing the things that are imperfect, and Rust will practically mentor you to something exceptional.
```

## What's Wrong?

> The Rust language is very specific.
> Very little is implicit.
> If you want to copy something, you have to call `.clone()`.
> If you get an error, you have to explicitly handle it (or call `.unwrap()` 🤮).
> If you've coded yourself into a corner with the borrow checker,
> you have to refactor your code to fix your access patterns.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Rust is very specific, so very little is implicit.
If you want to copy something, you must call `.clone()`.
If you encounter an error, you should handle it explicitly (or call `.unwrap()` 🤮).
If you've painted yourself into a corner with the borrow checker,
it's probably time to refactor your code and fix your access patterns.
```

The compiler catches cases where you've made a mistake or missed something that needs to be updated.
The result is that once a major refactor compiles again, the code probably works as intended.
The compiler is very particular, but it has your back, and it's a great feeling.

The specificity also tends to prickle at that sense of perfectionism that many developers have:

> - "I shouldn't need to clone that here, I should be able to pass a reference".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- "I shouldn't need to clone that here, I should be able to pass a reference."
```

> - "I shouldn't need to unwrap that here, I should be able to handle the error".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- "I shouldn't need to unwrap that here, I should be able to handle the error."
```

> The specificity of the language does tend to awaken the perfectionist in many developers:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The specificity of the language does tend to awaken the perfectionist in its developers:
```

> - "I should be able to prevent that mistake from happening in the first place".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- "I should be able to prevent that mistake from happening in the first place."
```

> - "I shouldn't need to write that boilerplate, I should be able to use a macro".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- "I shouldn't need to write that boilerplate, I should be able to use a macro."
```

> This results in a lot of revisiting code that works, but isn't quite perfect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This results revisiting a lot of code that works but isn't quite perfect.
```

> - "I shouldn't need to clone that here, I should be able to pass a reference."
> - "I shouldn't need to unwrap that here, I should be able to handle the error."
> - "I shouldn't need to write that boilerplate, I should be able to use a macro."
> - "I should be able to prevent that mistake from happening in the first place."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The specificity of the language does tend to awaken the perfectionist in its developers:

"I don't actually want to clone that; I should pass a reference."

"I shouldn't use unwrap here because I know how to handle this error."

"I wouldn't need this boilerplate if I used a macro."

Which effectively generalizes to, "I should be able to prevent that mistake from happening in the first place."
```

Many of the examples above are so subtle in other languages that even experienced developers might not notice them.
In Rust, they're glaringly obvious.

> This is very much a double edged sword.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a double edged sword, of course.
```

> This cycle can result in a lot of revisiting code that works, but isn't quite perfect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This cycle can result in a lot of revisiting code that works but isn't quite perfect.
```

This is a double edged sword, of course.
- It's easy to get lost in the weeds of perfectionism
- It's also Rust's superpower

## Fixing the Obvious

> The API examples above weren't this good in their first release.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The crates I mention here weren't this good in their first release.
```

Their authors made them work, and then they made them better.
The crates that are incredible works of engineering today have stood the test of time.
The authors have fixed the papercuts reported by thousands of users.

> Issues that they never considered when writing their libraries have been reported and fixed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Issues they might never have considered when writing their libraries have been reported and remediated.
```

These crates have been polished to a mirror sheen and are a joy to use because
so many of the things that were imperfect in previous iterations have been addressed.

Sometimes fixing the issue was easy, and sometimes it was hard.

> Sometimes it required a major refactor, and sometimes it required building a whole other library.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sometimes it required a major refactor, and sometimes it required building a whole separate library.
```

Sometimes it required working with the language team itself to fix bugs or introduce new language features.
The unifying factor is that the authors were dedicated to making their code better,
and the language gave them the tools to do so.
Developers want to make their code better in every language.

> Rust is unique in how it helps developers to identify where and how to improve.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Rust is unique in how it helps developers to discover where and how to improve.
```

> Rust certainly isn't unique in that regard, but it is unique in how it guides developers to identify where and how to improve.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Rust is unique in how it helps developers to identify where and how to improve.
```

> The result is that many crates in the Rust ecosystem are a joy to use.
> It's not just because the authors are genius programmers (many of them are).
> It's because they've spent the time to address areas that were flawed over and over again.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The result is that many crates in the Rust ecosystem are a joy to use, and it's not because the authors are all genius programmers (many of them are);
It's because they've spent the time to address areas that were flawed over and over again, which Rust fosters better than any language I've written.
```

You don't have to be a world famous open source developer to write great code in Rust.

> You just have to be willing to revisit the things that impel refinement until you've built something incredible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You just have to be willing to revisit code which elicits improvement until you've built something incredible.
```

All of those attributes have been covered by too many blogs, articles, and talks to count.
The ecosystem of crates is growing rapidly,
but many of the foundational crates are of a quality that is hard to find in other languages.
Crates like [Chrono](https://github.com/chronotope/chrono), [Tokio](https://tokio.rs), and [Hyper](https://hyper.rs) are well-designed,
well-documented, and well-maintained.
This isn't to suggest that other languages don't have great ecosystems,
but the quality of core crates in the Rust ecosystem is just on another level.
They're not just good, they're great.
They have a level of correctness, robustness, and attention to detail that is hard to find in any other language.
Moreover, there are a *lot* of examples of really incredible open source projects written in Rust.
I've been blown away by the quality of the crates I've used in Rust since I started working in the language.
The code is so good in fact, that it's honestly pretty intimidating.

I've spent the last several months building libraries in Rust,
and I've come to appreciate the sum of the language's strengths for a reason I haven't seen discussed much:
obvious correctness drives ergonomics.

> Because the language is so strict, it's easy to identify where you've taken shortcuts to get things working.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because the language is so strict, it's easy to identify where you've cut corners to get things working.
```

The result is that once a major refactor compiles again, the code probably works as intended.
The compiler is very particular, but it has your back, and it's a great feeling.

The specificity of the language does tend to awaken the perfectionist in many developers:
- "I shouldn't need to clone that here, I should be able to pass a reference."
- "I shouldn't need to unwrap that here, I should be able to handle the error."
- "I shouldn't need to write that boilerplate, I should be able to use a macro."
- "I should be able to prevent that mistake from happening in the first place."

This cycle can result in a lot of revisiting code that works, but isn't quite perfect.
Many of the deficiencies described above are so subtle in other languages that even experienced developers might overlook them.
In Rust, they're glaringly obvious.

This is a double edged sword, of course.
- It's easy to get lost in the weeds of perfectionism
- It's also Rust's superpower

## Fixing the Obvious

The API examples above weren't this good in their first release, or their second, or their tenth.
Their authors made them work, and then they made them better.

> They are great examples of what can be accomplished with a lot of time, effort, and dedication.
> The crates that are incredible works of engineering today have stood the test of time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The crates that are incredible works of engineering today have stood the test of time.
They are examples of what can be accomplished with a lot of time, effort, and dedication.
```

> They have fixed the papercuts reported by thousands of users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The authors have fixed the papercuts reported by thousands of users.
```

Issues that they never considered when writing their libraries have been reported and fixed.

> They have been polished to a mirror sheen and are a joy to use because

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These crates have been polished to a mirror sheen and are a joy to use because
```

so many of the things that were obviously wanting in previous iterations have been addressed.
Someone already found the rough edges that you were going to run into,
and either fixed the issue themselves, or reported the issue to the authors who did.
Sometimes fixing the issue was easy, and sometimes it was hard.
Sometimes it required a major refactor, and sometimes it required building a whole other library.
Sometimes it required working with the language team itself to fix bugs or introduce new language features.
The unifying factor is that the authors were dedicated to making their code better,
and the language gave them the tools to do so.
Developers want to make their code better in every language.

> Rust isn't unique in that regard, but it is unique in how it guides developers to identify where and how to make their code better.

Reviewer: You repeat yourself in this section, in particular the parts about people reporting issues, and the crate authors addressing the feedback.

Author: Stripped out quite a bit of repetitive thoughts

The result is that many crates in the Rust ecosystem are a joy to use.
It's not just because the authors are genius programmers (many of them are).
It's because they've spent the time to address areas that were flawed over and over again.
You don't have to be a world famous open source developer to write great code in Rust.

> You just have to be willing to fix the things that can obviously be improved until you've built something incredible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You just have to be willing to revisit the things that impel refinement until you've built something incredible.
```

Very little is implicit.
If you want to copy something, you have to call `.clone()`.
If you get an error, you have to explicitly handle it (or call `.unwrap()` 🤮).
If you've coded yourself into a corner with the borrow checker,
you have to refactor your code to fix your access patterns.

Fortunately, it's pretty easy to make sweeping changes in Rust for the same reasons that writing it in the first place is difficult.
The compiler catches cases where you've made a mistake or missed something that needs to be updated.
The result is that once a major refactor compiles again, the code probably works as intended.
The compiler is very particular, but it has your back, and it's a great feeling.

The specificity of the language does tend to awaken the perfectionist in many developers:
- "I shouldn't need to clone that here, I should be able to pass a reference."
- "I shouldn't need to unwrap that here, I should be able to handle the error."
- "I shouldn't need to write that boilerplate, I should be able to use a macro."
- "I should be able to prevent that mistake from happening in the first place."

This can result in a lot of revisiting code that works, but isn't quite perfect.

> Many of the examples above are so subtle in other languages that even experienced developers might not notice them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Many of the deficiencies described above are so subtle in other languages that even experienced developers might overlook them.
```

In Rust, they're glaringly obvious.

> This is very much a double edged sword.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a double edged sword.
```

- It's easy to get lost in the weeds of perfectionism
- It's also Rust's superpower

## Fixing the Obvious

The API examples above weren't this good in their first release, or their second, or their tenth.
Their authors made them work, and then they made them better.
They are great examples of what can be accomplished with a lot of time, effort, and dedication.
The crates that are incredible works of engineering today have stood the test of time.
They have fixed the papercuts reported by thousands of users.
Issues that they never considered when writing their libraries have been reported and fixed.
They have been polished to a mirror sheen and are a joy to use because
so many of the things that were obviously wanting in previous iterations have been addressed.
Someone already found the rough edges that you were going to run into,
and either fixed the issue themselves, or reported the issue to the authors who did.
Sometimes fixing the issue was easy, and sometimes it was hard.
Sometimes it required a major refactor, and sometimes it required building a whole other library.

> Sometimes it required working with the language team itself to introduce new language features or fix bugs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sometimes it required working with the language team itself to fix bugs or introduce new language features.
```

The unifying factor is that the authors were dedicated to making their code better,
and the language gave them the tools to do so.

> Developers want to make their code better in every language.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Developers generally want to make their code as good as possible;
```

> Rust isn't unique in that regard, but it is unique in how it enables developers to identify where and how to make their code better.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Rust isn't unique in that regard, but it is unique--in my experience--for enabling developers to write code that is as good as they want it to be.
```

Author: Updated sentence
